README.md, before:

# SpotWeekly
Automate saving your Discover Weekly Playlist using Python.
Made with <3 and FastAPI.  
The saved playlist link is sent to my discord server via a webhook.

## Installation
Clone this repository.  
```bash
git clone https://github.com/shouryade/SpotWeekly
```
This project uses `pipenv` to create a virtual environment.
```bash
pip install pipenv
```
Activate and install dependencies using pipenv.
```bash
cd SpotWeekly
pipenv sync 
```
For `venv` enthusiasts, I have provided a `requirements.txt` file to help install project dependencies.   

Rename the `env.example` file to **`.env`**.
## Setup
<details>
<summary>Registering Your Spotify App on Spotify for Developers </summary>
<br>
<li>Create a <a href='https://developer.spotify.com/dashboard/applications'>Spotify Developer</a> account.</li>
<li>Copy the Client ID and Client SECRET and paste it in the .env file.</li>
<li>Go to edit settings and set Redirect URI to <i>http://127.0.0.1:5000/callback</i> as shown</li>
<br>
<img src='readme-assets/callback.png'>
</details>
<details>
<summary>Setting up webhook for Discord</summary>
<br>
<li>You need to have the <b>create and manage webhook</b> permissions in the server.</li>
<li>Go to Server Settings > Integrations > New Webhook </li>
<l1>Fill the required values and select the channel for the webhook to be posted in. </l1>
<li>Click on <i>Copy Webhook URL</i></li>
<img src='readme-assets/webhook.png'>
<li>Paste the copied url in .env file.</li>
</details>
<br>

## Usage
To get the playlist ID for your Discover Weekly, copy the link for the playlist.  
The highlighted portion as shown in the image is the Spotify Playlist ID.

![Spotify Playlist ID](readme-assets/id.png "Spotify Playlist ID")   
Extract the ID and paste it onto the **`.env`** file.  
Fill the remaining details in the **`.env`** file.  
<br>
Run `app.py` and copy the token supplied.
Run `main.py` and supply the parameters asked.  
Check Discord once `Successfully created playlist !` is printed on screen.  

## Roadmap
[ ] Create Docker instance.  
[ ] Run this as a cron job using Github Workflows.  
[ ] Create a bash script for a cron job if locally deployed.


## Contributing
Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

Commit message:

Modified Readme to include crontab instructions

README.md, after:

# SpotWeekly
Automate saving your Discover Weekly Playlist using Python.
Made with <3 and FastAPI.  
The saved playlist link is sent to my discord server via a webhook.

## Installation
Clone this repository.  
```bash
git clone https://github.com/shouryade/SpotWeekly
```
This project uses `pipenv` to create a virtual environment.
```bash
pip install pipenv
```
Activate and install dependencies using pipenv.
```bash
cd SpotWeekly
pipenv sync 
```
For `venv` enthusiasts, I have provided a `requirements.txt` file to help install project dependencies.   

Rename the `env.example` file to **`.env`**.
## Setup
<details>
<summary>Registering Your Spotify App on Spotify for Developers </summary>
<br>
<li>Create a <a href='https://developer.spotify.com/dashboard/applications'>Spotify Developer</a> account.</li>
<li>Copy the Client ID and Client SECRET and paste it in the .env file.</li>
<li>Go to edit settings and set Redirect URI to <i>http://127.0.0.1:5000/callback</i> as shown</li>
<br>
<img src='readme-assets/callback.png'>
</details>
<details>
<summary>Setting up webhook for Discord</summary>
<br>
<li>You need to have the <b>create and manage webhook</b> permissions in the server.</li>
<li>Go to Server Settings > Integrations > New Webhook </li>
<l1>Fill the required values and select the channel for the webhook to be posted in. </l1>
<li>Click on <i>Copy Webhook URL</i></li>
<img src='readme-assets/webhook.png'>
<li>Paste the copied url in .env file.</li>
</details>
<br>

## Usage
To get the playlist ID for your Discover Weekly, copy the link for the playlist.  
The highlighted portion as shown in the image is the Spotify Playlist ID.

![Spotify Playlist ID](readme-assets/id.png "Spotify Playlist ID")   
Extract the ID and paste it onto the **`.env`** file.  
Fill the remaining details in the **`.env`** file.  
<br>
Run `app.py` and copy the token supplied.
Run `main.py` and supply the parameters asked.  
Check Discord once `Successfully created playlist !` is printed on screen.  

### Running it as a cronjob
A Cron job is used to schedule events without human interaction.  
Here I have used the following cronjob to run the FastAPI server.  
```
0 10 * * 1 /usr/bin/python ~/SpotWeekly/app.py 
```  
which basically translates to *run `app.py` at 10:00 AM every Monday*.  
You can modify the scheduled job according to your convenience using https://crontab.guru.  

Now,follow the given instructions :
- In the terminal, type `crontab -e`. This launches Vi Editor.
- Press `i` to launch `edit mode`.
- Copy the text in `cron.txt` and paste it in the crontab file.
- Type `:wq` to exit the editor and save changes.
- You should see `crontab: installing new crontab`.

## Roadmap
[ ] Create Docker instance.  
[ ] Run this as a cron job using Github Workflows.  
[ x ] Create a cron job if locally deployed.


## Contributing
Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.
